Welcome everyone to this lecture on structuring a large flask application previously we just reviewed
the overall structure of our newly reformatted flask webapp.
Now it's actually time to implement this restructuring since you've already written a lot of the code
in previous lectures.
Mainly we're just going to be copying and pasting from the provided files.
Now we're actually going to do this through the use of blueprints flask has a built in blueprints capability
which will allow us to register modular components for our flask application.
This way we can easily reference a view for each component.
For example we're going to have to the rectories one for owners and one for puppies.
And each of those that rectories will have its own separate views that py file.
So essentially we'll have two views that PI file one for owners and one for puppies.
Then each of these views is going to have their own ad view.
So that means there's going to be a way to add owners and a way to add puppies.
Now typically what's going to happen is there would be some sort of confusion as far as when you say
slash add row if you're referring to owners or puppies.
Because now you have two views that profile file previously would call one forward slash at owner and
the other one for Slash at puppies.
How do we take care of this problem.
And now we have two separate views that py files.
Well in order for the flask application to not get confused with the ad route that's where we use blueprints
the blueprints are going to allow us to register a your a prefix for each views that py file.
So we're going to automatically be able to reference add as a view in each of these views that pi and
then separately with the use of blueprints flask is going to automatically register your old prefix
so that when we actually run this on our web application we'll see owners for Slash add and puppies
for slushed ads separately.
So overall the major differences in our code for this lecture are going to be restructuring and the
project folders adding in blueprints and then registering the blueprints in an in the pie file.
Please no.
It's really easy to make a simple typo that actually causes an error throughout this entire project.
So please make sure you follow along first very carefully and use our notes directly.
Make sure not to do any modification Tornos.
So if you're ever getting an error for this particular lecture it's almost impossible for us to help
fix it.
From our end.
Instead what you should really do is copy and use our note files directly because any simple typo is
going to be really hard to catch.
OK so again this lecture is really focusing on the overall structure of the fullers files.
Most of the actual content of the files is just going to be copied and pasted from our notes.
All right let's get started by heading over to the text editor.
OK so here you have the structure text file opening and we're going to set up all these files and folders
first and then we'll just copy and paste the actual content into them.
A lot of these files and folders We've actually already created.
For instance we've already made these templates for adding owners and adding puppies as well as the
forms and views.
All we're doing now is we're just separating them into their separate components for owners and puppies
and then we'll manually add in blueprints as well as manually set it up.
This in a file.
But first let's go over here to the left hand tab and start creating these folders.
First of all they're going to create or first file I should say is my app that py file.
So say create app that pi and then all start by creating my project folder so first thing to do here
is say new folder and will say my project and you want to make sure you follow the same naming convention
I do.
Otherwise your source code won't work.
So underneath my project will create a couple of directories.
One will be our owners directory.
That's the components where all the owners related materials are going to go.
Then I'll create a new folder called Puppies.
Let's roll up puppies material and then I'll create a new folder called templates and these are going
to be the top level templates things like my bass H.T. mail and my home H.T. file other templates are
going to go within owners and puppies.
And then after that I'll create a couple more files.
One is going to be my underscore underscore and it underscore underscore that py file and the last one
is going to be a model that py file that's going to store models and technically we could also separate
this model's not pie into owners and puppies but in this case there's only two models that exist so
it's not really worth the effort of separating it out.
OK so now it's time to go into owners and actually start building this out.
And in fact we're going to do a really similar thing for both owners and puppies so owners will create
a new folder here called templates.
Now we're going to the same thing within puppies.
So new folder templates.
So these are templates that are associated with puppies and owners and the actual structure for these
to work.
You have to then the way flask works is make a new folder underneath owners templates and create another
owner's folder.
So notice here in my structure it gives owners templates.
Owners will do the same thing for puppies.
Puppies templates new folder.
Puppies.
OK.
So this is really common as far as a structuring.
It basically allows flasks to read and make sure it's connecting to the right template.
Later on we'll add outreached him team files there ourselves.
So right now we have our template file their structure set up.
Now we just need to add for both owners and puppies will create their own forms that py file and then
also create their own views that profile.
And again notice here.
Same level as templates so owners has a template directory then forms interviews and basically people
is going to have the same thing.
So templates is already set up for puppies.
So then we're just going to save puppies and you file forms thought pie and then puppies and you file
views PI OK.
And this is basically the main structure we had to set up.
Now we have our owners components all within the owner's directory.
It has it's going to have its own formed its own views and its own templates within its owner's directory
here and puppies is going to work the exact same way.
OK let's start off by continuing an ad in the files that really have no changes between our last iteration
of this puppy adoption Web site versus our restructuring right now.
So those are mainly going to be the templates and the models that Paey file.
So lets open up a start for models that py file.
So just to make it clear right now I'm in models that pie and this is essentially the top level there's
only one models not pite file.
All we're going to do is we're going to copy and paste what we previously had before.
So I'm going to say models that pi and copy and paste from our previous iteration of this project the
owner class and then the puppy class.
The one thing that we're going to have to take care of is how we actually get this D-B the model.
So we're going to set that all up in our in it that PI file.
So this underscore underscore in its underscore underscore that pi which is under the my project folder
that's going to contain all the code that creates the application and the database in order to import
that since it's underneath the init PI file underneath the my project folder.
All we need to say is from my project import D-B.
And that means that we're going to need to set up D-B inside the in a PI file under the my project folder.
OK.
So this is essentially something that's on our to do list set up this at about pi file but everything
else as far as setting up the puppy model and the owner model that looks exactly the same as we had
it before.
Suddenly to see these changes again and just copy and pasting here from the notes but our models up
file is now done.
The next thing I want to do is add in the templates that go at the top level of my project.
So let me expand templates right now and create some new files inside of templates.
Basically we just need to add the top level one is based on HVM L..
So I'm going to copy and paste that in right now.
This essentially just holds the nav bar.
So will copy and paste that save that in number.
We have the nav bar and then we say block content and we'll go over these actually your L's and just
a little bit.
That's going to be slightly different.
And then we'll say templates new file and I'll say home thought HVM L so home that each T.M. that's
essentially going to look pretty much exactly the same as our previous home.
It's just going to be extending from based l a jumbotron and I'll say welcome to our adoption page.
Please click on the links for the nav bar so I'll save that right there.
So far we finished our templates and our models not pi file since our models that PI file is now finished.
Let's go ahead and sync it to the in it up high.
So remember I said we had to set up this from my project.
Import D-B line.
So I'm going to go to my in it up PI again just to make it clear I'm right now and underscore underscore
in its underscore underscore that PI underneath the my project folder.
So that's the current file I'm in.
What I'm going to do is import os and then I'll say from flask import flask from flask sequel alchemy
import sequel alchemy.
Again a lot of the same imports we used to have in our apple pie file.
Except now they're going underneath the pie.
And last thing we're going to say is from flask migrates import
then we'll say app is equal to flask.
Well passen the builtin name variable.
And now we're going to set up our configurations.
So it is that bar configurations for our database so we're going to set up our base directory as OS
path absolute path and then OS path directory name and we'll pass and file just as we've done before.
So nothing really new here.
It's just going in a different location and then we'll set up our app config first one is going to be
the sequel alchemy underscore database underscore.
You are I basically where the actual sequel database is going to be located.
Elysée sequel.
Colin three forward slashes.
And then we'll put in the paff are currently located essentially OS pathic join based directory they
did the sequel.
OK.
So we set up our sequel alchemy database just as we've done many times in the past and they say app
config and we'll say sequel alchemy underscore track modifications.
And just as we've done before.
Well synthetical to false then I'll set up D-B is equal to sequel alchemy pasand the app.
And then also perform migrations on the app by passing the app and the database and to migrate save
those changes.
And now again I'm in the in it up file underneath my project folder and I've set up my application as
well as the configurations I need for my sequel Alcmene database I've created that database and now
I have the ability to migrate on that database.
So if I take a look at models up-I I've now successfully linked from my project import the B thus directly
calling in at that pipe because it's underneath my project folder and it's going to import this D-B
right here.
The last configuration I want to make here is for the forms.
Remember we need to configure a secret key.
So go ahead and do that.
Right below we create the app will see app config secret underscore key and you can just set this to
any string you want.
It's.
My secret key save that now we're not finished yet with this in it that PI file.
The last thing is going to have to do is register the actual blueprints but we haven't done that yet.
So right now we'll just leave it as is.
OK.
So we have our pie file set up.
Now let's go ahead and start setting up the templates for owners and puppies as well as the forms.
So next up we're going to do is start setting up forms for puppies.
So right now I am in the forms that PI file underneath puppies and I'm just going to copy and paste
the code that we previously used for our adoption site.
Again just importing flask form and importing the fields and I have an add form and a delete form for
the puppies.
Notice how I don't need to clarify further that this is add a puppy form or delete puppies form.
That clarification is already going to happen automatically for me because I have this as a subcomponent
of the puppies directory.
That being said let's now go to our owners forms potpie file and I was again going to copy and paste
this from the notes.
So the forms file for the owners and let me make it clear again I'm right now under owner folder forms
up high here and is going to copy and paste basically the same thing except now it says out of form
for the owner.
So I have name pop ID and submit again.
It's really crucial to note here that I have forms that are now sharing the same name as a form under
puppies and then add a form under owners.
What's crucial is that when I utilize blueprints later on in the views there's not going to be any mix
up as far as what form is what.
Because they're already in their own subcomponent folders.
OK so I going to say those changes in my forms that pie and other forms are essentially taken care of.
Now all I need to add in are the actual template files are going to be using.
So let's go back and add in those template files.
Essentially those are just are HVM l files.
We'll start with the puppies they actually have more templates.
So underneath puppies templates puppies are going to create some new files.
So the first one is going to be ad HVM L..
So I will say copy and paste from the notes.
Again this is just adding a puppy.
Remember we grab that form and then add a puppy to our database.
So save that there.
Then we want to be able to delete a puppy.
So create a new file we'll call delete that age DML and then we're going to copy and paste this pretty
much the same files we've been working with save that so that a puppy get adopted.
We thought the forums forms removed the puppy from the list and then we want to be able to list all
the puppies so all say new file lists h TNL and then they're going to copy and paste from the notes
save that change.
And now I have all the views I need for my puppies.
Now I want to add one view for my owners and that's going to be an add.
Owner HTL form so underneath that I'll say new file.
I will call it an underscore owner the h t m l and I'm going to copy this and paste it.
Save it again this is an owner h t m l underneath the owner's templates OK.
So basically what we've done so far is we've added in all the files that essentially don't need any
major modification for the blueprint restructuring.
And those are things like your templates and your forms.
The only modifications you'll need is the naming scheme.
Sometimes maybe sometimes you want to simplify it.
And again notice here on forms we have to out of forms previously would have something like a puppy
form and an owner form.
But now since they're in their own subcomponents we don't need to do that in the very next lecture.
We're going to continue our restructuring by now focusing in on the views that py files.
Those are the ones that are going to be slightly different because that's what we're actually going
to add in these blueprint calls.
We'll see you in the next lecture where we start manipulating with blueprints.